---
title: "ETHEREUM: A SECURE DECENTRALISED GENERALISED TRANSACTION LEDGER<br/>EIP-150 REVISION"
subTitle: DR. GAVIN WOOD<br/>FOUNDER, ETHEREUM & ETHCORE<br/>GAVIN@ETHCORE.IO
date: 2019-10-28 00:00:00 +0000
layout: 'post'
permalink: "/note/en/001t.html"
author: 'Pi'
tags: []

---

[http://gavwood.com/paper.pdf](http://gavwood.com/paper.pdf)

## Conventions
<a href="#e10">10</a>

<i class="c"></i>$\Upsilon$ is the Ethereum state transition function allows components to carry out arbitrary computation

<i class="c"></i>$\sigma$ allows components to store arbitrary state between transactions

<i class="c"></i>$T$, Tuples are typically denoted with an upper-case letter, $T$, is used to denote an Ethereum transaction.

<i class="c"></i>$\Pi$ is the block-level statetransition function

<i class="c"></i>$B$ is block

<i class="c"></i>$\Omega$ is the block-finalisation state transition function (a function that rewards a nominated party)

<i class="c"></i>$\boldsymbol{\sigma}[a]_{s}$ storageRoot: A 256-bit hash of the root node of a Merkle Patricia tree that encodes the storage contents of the account.

<i class="c"></i>$\mathbb{O}$ is the set of bytes.

<i class="c"></i>$\mathbb{B}$ is the set of all sequences of bytes (otherwise known as byte-arrays, and a leaf if imagined as a tree). $\mathbb{B}_{32}$ set of all byte sequences of length 32.

<i class="c"></i>$\mathbb{L}$ is the set of all tree-like (sub-)structures that are not a single leaf (a branch node if imagined as a tree)

<i class="c"></i>$\mathbb{P}$ is the set of positive integers. The set of all positive integers smaller than <span>$2^{256}$</span> is named <span>$\mathbb{P_{256}}$</span>


## The Blockchain Paradigm

A valid state transition is one which comes
about through a transaction. Formally:<br/>


$$\sigma_{t+1} \equiv \Upsilon\left(\sigma_{t}, T\right)$$

$$\sigma_{t+1} \equiv \Pi\left(\sigma_{t}, B\right)$$

$$B \equiv\left(\ldots,\left(T_{0}, T_{1}, \ldots\right)\right)$$

$$\Pi(\boldsymbol{\sigma}, B) \equiv \Omega\left(B, \Upsilon\left(\Upsilon\left(\sigma, T_{0}\right), T_{1}\right) \ldots\right)$$

Conventions: 1,2,3,4,5,6


<hr>

Ethereum has an intrinsic currency, Ether, known also as ETH.<br/>
One Ether is
defined as being $10^8$ Wei.<br/>
There exist other sub denominations of Ether:<br/>

Multiplier| Name
---|---
$10^{0}$| Wei
$10^{12}$|Szabo
$10^{15}$|Finney
$10^{18}$|Ether

<hr>

Define a number of useful functions throughout:<br/>

$$\ell(\mathbf{x}) \equiv \mathbf{x}[\|\mathbf{x}\|-1]$$

## Modified Merkle Patricia Tree


## Blocks, State and Transactions

### World State

Define a convenient equivalence:

$$\operatorname{TRIE}\left(L_{I}^{*}\left(\boldsymbol{\sigma}[a]_{\mathbf{s}}\right)\right) \equiv \boldsymbol{\sigma}[a]_{s}$$

The collapse function for the set of key/value pairs in the trie, $L_{I}^{*}$ , is defined as the element-wise transformation of the base function $L_{I}$ , given as:

$$L_{I}((k, v)) \equiv(\mathrm{KEC}(k), \operatorname{RLP}(v))$$

where:

$$
k \in \mathbb{B}_{32} \quad \wedge \quad v \in \mathbb{P}
\label{eq:10}
$$

Conventions: 7<br/>
Equations: $7$
## Appendix B. Recursive Length Prefix

We define the set of possible structures $\mathbb{T}$:

$$
\mathbb{T} \equiv \mathbb{L} \cup \mathbb{B}
$$

$$
\mathbb{L} \equiv\left\{\mathbf{t}: \mathbf{t}=(\mathbf{t}[0], \mathbf{t}[1], \ldots) \wedge \forall_{n<\|\mathbf{t}\|} \mathbf{t}[n] \in \mathbb{T}\right\}
$$

$$
\mathbb{B} \equiv\left\{\mathbf{b}: \mathbf{b}=(\mathbf{b}[0], \mathbf{b}[1], \ldots) \wedge \forall_{n<\|\mathbf{b}\|} \mathbf{b}[n] \in \mathbb{O}\right\} 
$$

Conventions: 8,9,10

## Appendix D. Modified Merkle Patricia Tree


In equation \eqref{eq:10}, we find the value of an
interesting integral:

\begin{equation}
  \int_0^\infty \frac{x^3}{e^x-1}\,dx = \frac{\pi^4}{15}
  \label{eq:sample1}
\end{equation}
